Maven command to run a file; mvn test -P<profilename>   ex: mvn test -PRegression
java -jar jenkins.war -httpPort=8080

//how to schedule jenkins job
*****
1 star: Minutes (0-59)
2 star: Hours (0-23)
3 star: Day in a Month (1-31)
4 star: Month in a year(1-12)
5 star: DayWeek (0-7) 0 and 7 are sunday

Selenium Framework interview questions:
1. What is the design pattern you haveused in writing the tests in the framework
ans=> We used page object model and also used page factory pattern to create locators and objects
We used annotations like FindBy for locators 

2) how are reusable utilities handled within the framework?
ans=> used resuable methods for page objects and one for test classes and introduced inheritance

3) where did you use inheritance oops concept in your framework?
for reusuable methods

4) How do you drive the data from external files in the framework?
ans=> we used json files to parse the data
there is a concept in testng called data provider. it also accepts hashmap as an object to send data.
I created one json file, I wrote one utility which converts my json to hashmap, 
once it is converted I'm passing hashmap object to data provider.
There is a dependency called jackson data bind that converts string to hasmap

5) Did you use interfaces in the framework? If so, what is the scope of it?
ans=> We are using interface listners . because it provides methods 
Webdriver itself in an interfac. adn we also used testng interfaces

6) How are you acheiving encapsulation in the framework?
ans=> by marking fields as private in classes and action methods public.
 
7)does your framework support parallel runs? How are you writing Thread safe code?
ans=> in xml file, the attribute parallel is set to tests which makes the tests run parallely. Each test starts 
in it's own thread.
But might face issue with reporting. We solved that problem using ThreadLocal class where it stores thread information as ID.
and we store them using set method and retrieve them using get method

8) Do you have static keywords in the framework? if so, its usage?
static variables use common space allocation for threads. So it might cause discrpency while running parallely
we can use it for texts

9)How are you sending Global Properties to your test at run time?
We created java properties file and reading it with properties class. It has the ability to read .peroperty files
We can also drive from maven commands 

10)What is the mechanism to run only selected set of tests inside the framework?
ans-> by testng groups concept and create an xml file and tell run tests onky those tests
We can also create seperate profile in Pom.xml

11) How are you handling flaky tests in framework?
ans=> by using IRetryAnalyzer interface


12)Does your framework take screenshot on test failures? how did you implement it?
ans=> by using testng listners interface. When test fails, we can catch it adn take ss and attach it to report

13)Explain framework architecture?
ans-> open seleniumFrameworkArchitecure png from laptop

//adding new text to check git integration


